The Joe Rogan experience love it. Before we get.
Into sort of the deep philosophy point. And this is,
this is actually really the, the biggest problem right now.
And the racism point is the shifting definition of racism.
So I had the unfortunate experience of actually reading one of the best-selling
books in the country. Robin's Angela is white fragility.
And let me just tell you a greater pile of horseshit has never been produced by
a bevy of horses. It is an awful book,
and it is basically rooted in the same theory as Hebrew Kennedys,
how to be an anti-racist the,
the basic definition of racism changes in this theory. So racism,
you and I were sitting here discussing racism and the way I defined racism,
it's probably the same way you defined racism.
You believe in the inferiority or superiority of a group based on race of an
individual based on their membership in that group too. Right? That'd be racism.
I believe that you're inferior or you're superior based on your race.
End of story. Right? That's that's racist.
So Robin's Angelo and Ebrum Kennedy redefined racism to mean any
societal structure that results in a racial inequality is itself racist.
So any structure that results in a not exact proportion between whites
and blacks, the NBA races. Exactly, exactly. The answer is kind of, yes,
except that the NBA is not racist because obviously it benefits black people,
right? I mean, now this is not racist,
except the root cause to meritocracy is the reason the NBA is not racist,
but Robin D'Angelo and Kennedy both suggest that meritocracy is an aspect
of whiteness.
They say that meritocracy and individual are aspects of whiteness because these
institutions,
things like meritocracy and individualism and not seeing people's colors,
these just reinforce hierarchies that end with disparate outcomes.
And so what they say is in order to be anti-racist,
you have to want to tear down the entire system. They literally say this,
I'm not, I'm not really. I know that I'm not misidentifying the argument,
because again, I've read their books. The,
the basic notion that to be anti-racist, you have to tear down free markets,
or you have to tear down free speech, or you have to.
And what that means is that, of course, that anytime there's riding and looting,
that's really just an expression of outrage at the broader American system.
And so it justifies that sort of stuff. This is why you saw Nicole Hannah Jones,
that in fact, the editor of the New York times 16,
19 project lady tweeting out that she appreciated that people were calling these
the 1619 riots.
Because once you say America is rooted in slavery and rooted in evil and a
terrible, horrible, no good, very bad place,
then robbing a shop is just the latest iteration of you fighting the system,
explain.
The 16, 19 correlation to people if.
You weren't sure. So the 1619 project is,
is something put forward by the New York times. It's not good history.
There are four Pulitzer prize winning historian who said,
this is not good history.
The basic argument is the United States was not founded in 1776 with the
principles of the declaration of independence.
The count and the country was actually founded in 16,
19 with the importation of African slaves to American shores because that's when
the first African slave arrived in the United States was 1619.
So the idea is that the entire history of America is a history of a system
that is endemically white supremacist.
And that all of the declaration of independence is basically a lie that the
principles of all men are created equal. That was a lie when it was written.
And it's a lie.
Now that the idea that we have rights that preexist government that's a lie.
All of these things are lies.
The constitution was built in order to enshrine white supremacy and no evolution
has taken place. So they don't, they, they,
they essentially make the argument that from 16, 19 to 2020 is a continuum.
Racism has gone underground a little bit, but it's still there. And still,
it's still implicit in all of our systems.
So the 1619 project has that says blaming literally everything on racism.
So disparities in maternal mortality between black women and white women,
which by the way, exist in Europe and in Canada, that's due to American racism.
Traffic patterns in the United States is due to systematic American racism.
Every racial disparity is attributable to a system that was rooted in slavery.
Now the traditional notion of America is that America was founded in 1776.
And that the story of America is that America did tolerate the great original
sin of slavery up until the civil war,
and then tolerated Jim Crow up until the civil rights movement of the 1960s.
And that is a great stain and a blot on America.
But the story of America is trying to fulfill the promises of the declaration of
independence over time, make those promises available to everybody.
And this isn't my argument. This is Martin Luther king Jr.
His argument when he talks on the,
in the March in Washington about fulfilling the promissory note of the
declaration of independence, he says, we're here to cash the check, right?
You issued us the check, and then you didn't let black Americans be Americans.
We're here to cash. The check is the argument. Frederick Douglas,
the freed slave makes in 1852,
he makes a famous speech before slavery has ended. And he says,
July 4th doesn't mean anything to black Americans because we're not included in
the bargain, include us in the bargain.
The story of America is the declaration of independence,
those principles that we should all basically still agree on because they're
pretty good principles, free speech, free assembly,
all the things you see in the constitution that those things brought about
greater freedom and prosperity than anything else.
And helped us overcome that sins that are present in all human societies and
were present in the United States in extreme ways as well. But that's the,
that's the counter narrative, right?
The 1619 project says that all that was basically nonsense.
And that America is just a history of whites keeping blacks down and that no
progress has essentially been made. If there is progress, it's mostly a lie.
And so every disparity now can be attributed to historic disparities between
white and black. Is.
There a middle ground D so if we look at
1776 and we look at the declaration of independence and we look at America today
in 2020, we,
there clearly is some impact in the echoes of
slavery. And then after that Jim Crow,
there's clearly some impact in these deeply impoverished communities that don't
seem to advance. Yes.
So the, to, to, to make the argument about institutional racism there,
there's a couple of ways you can read this when people say systemic racism or
institutional racism.
I usually ask them to be a little more specific in what they mean,
because there are a few ways you can read that one is history has impact.
Of course, that's true, right? That's true for everybody.
It's true in your family history. But if you have a grandfather who went to,
who went to prison on a particular charge that leads to poverty for your
parents, which led to more poverty for you, right? People have histories,
those histories are embedded in their life experiences.
And that's true for societies as well. All of that is for sure. True.
Then there's the question as to whether the institutions today are racist and
that's not quite the same thing, right?
Because history has consequences is not the same thing as saying the rules today
are racist because the rules today are not racist.
Actually the roles today are quite not racist. So.
Historically it's fairly recent.
If you go from the civil rights movement to 2020,
we're really not talking about how much time it was taught three generations,
50 plus years.
60 Years. Yeah. 50 plus in the world of, you know,
the history of human history. It's not very small.
Amount of time, right?
So clearly there's some impact of both racism and Jim Crow laws.
So that, that's where I'm saying there's a middle ground.
Yeah. Then, and it's in depth.
It is important for people on my side of the aisle,
conservatives to acknowledge and recognize the importance of,
of history in people's living situations now.
And it's important for people on the other side of the aisle to at the same
time, not attribute every single thing to history, because.
There's always something like that.
There's always like extremes on each position. And the truth lies somewhere in.
The middle.
I think that it lies as far in the dead center of that as people I think want it
to what I mean by that is the problems that have played communities in the
United States, not just the black community in the United States,
but problems of racism or problems of sexism,
the way those get alleviated is people making better choices over time, right?
That is the problem. That that's the way that those issues get alleviate.
When Jews arrived in the United States.
And though in the early 20th century to talk with my people, when they,
when they came, they were impoverished,
they didn't speak the language they're banned from country clubs.
There was open discrimination against them. They were banned from Harvard,
right? Harvard law school had quotas on Jews. The,
the way to fight against that is to make good decisions.
And so the,
you fight against the system to make sure that the system has rules that apply
equally to everyone, right? But you clearly.
See that there's a big difference between people coming over here willingly and
doing so in order to better their lives versus someone whose ancestors were
dragged over here to be sold as property.
And then dealing with the repercussions of that,
being your family history and red line laws and all the other things that were
put in place to sort of keep them in very specific areas,
which to this day remain crime-ridden gang ridden
deeply impoverished. Well.
That's true.
But the question is how much of that is historic redlining and how much of that
is an 18 year old kid today deciding to pep a gun and shoot somebody.
But how much.
Of that 18 year old kid today deciding to pick up a gun and shoot some money is
based on him growing up in this up environment where that's, what he models,
where everything around him is crime and gangs. And you imitate your atmosphere,
which all humans.
Right? But the answer is there's only one way to break that chain.
What is that way is to not pick up a gun and shoot somebody.
Simplistic way of looking at it. If you're on the outside of that community.
And you're not one of those 18 year old kids that grows up with the incredible
influence of all the people around him. And that's all you see and that's all,
you know, well, but.
The problem is the only way that's going to be the thing that your kid doesn't
know is for you not to do it at some point, personal agency has to come in.
It does, but education, education.
And teaching them about personal agency and,
and letting them understand that there is a way out of this and that the path
that they see being replicated over and over again,
by these people that wind up dying young, that wind up going to jail,
that there are other options.
There's a lot of kids that never get that other information, or if they get it,
they get little blips of it. But the vast majority of the information,
the vast majority of the influence they get is.
Terrible. Well, th I, I totally agree with this.
And this is why I think the worst thing that you can say to a kid is you're born
behind the eight ball. And no matter what you do, you're not going to succeed,
right? That's literally the worst thing you can say to a kid.
What you should be saying is look at how your grandfather was born behind the
eight fall and look how hard he had to work in order to get ahead and look at
all the options true.
Though. But if your grandfather wasn't ahead, didn't get ahead.
If your grandfather was in and out of jail,
if your father was in and out of jail, everyone around you is like that.
If there's literally no influence, that's positive in your life.
The idea of saying to a kid like that, Hey,
don't pick up a gun and shoot somebody. It's way.
That's way too simplistic aversion of, of their future. In my, in my.
My problem is I don't see an alternative solution.
I wouldn't tell talking about solution. Absolutely.
I think an alternative solution is there has to be some sort of large
scale intervention in these communities to do something about what,
what, what has already been set in motion and the momentum that keeps continuing
decade after decade, I don't know what could be done, but that that's.
The problem is that I think that a lot of the solutions that have been proposed
have already been tried, meaning that, okay, so for example,
LBJ thought that the way to alleviate a lot of these inequalities was the war on
poverty. And he openly talked about this. He talked about,
he gave a speech very famously in which he said,
we're trying to guarantee equality of outcome, not just equality of opportunity,
equality of outcome.
And you can't hold the race where somebody is starting 20 yards behind and then
fire the gun and say, okay, then 10 equal race, right?
So you have to get the person who's 20 yards behind to actually get up to the
starting line so that they're equal. And so the idea was,
we're going to fight this war on poverty and alleviate poverty,
largely through transfer payments. And,
and through the government taking a forcible step in favor of alleviating
people's lives. We've now spent $22 trillion in the war on poverty.
And we have about the same number of black Americans living under the poverty
line as we're living under the poverty line. By the late seventies, the, the,
the real issues that that are inter that are,
that are creating intergenerational poverty. Everyone knows this,
but remains true.
The number one predictor of intergenerational poverty in the United States
remain single motherhood.
The single mother had written the black community was 20% in 1960.
It is upward of 70% today. That's not unique to the black community, by the way,
it's true in the white community as well.
The fi 5% of white kids were born out of wedlock in 1960. Today,
it's upward of 40%. That is not something has happened.
And it is not a matter of increased racism.
That's not happening because of increased racism, right?
Th th that is happening because there has been a cultural change that does
not place tremendous emphasis for black or white,
or for anybody on personal responsibility and personal agency.
There needs to be a mindset change. We do this by the way,
in all other areas of American life,
except for the most important decisions in the area of sports,
nobody does this routine.
And there there's a point shall be steel makes in the area of sports.
If a kid is not, does not have a good jump shot. Nobody says to him,
you know what?
You don't have a good jump shot because your father didn't have the jump shot.
His grandfather didn't have a good jump shot.
And the game is biased against you. We say, okay, if you want to be on the team,
you're going to have to learn to shoot a jump shot, right? That,
that sounds harsh. That sounds bad, but boards.
Are different. And here's why sports are different. Cause sports,
you enter them independently of your culture. You, you, you,
you base what you're trying to do on the parameters of the rules and the
people that you're competing against. That's how you look at it.
So whatever culture you're from you,
you walk into this new thing with this very rigid set of rules.
[Inaudible] white people,
or Jews or Asians have a monopoly on valuing education or a monopoly on hard
work or punctuality or anything.
I think that black people have exactly the same capacity as any
people of any other race to do all of these things.
And those are the preconditions for success. You either meet them or you don't.
I mean, that's true for everybody, but.
For success,
but don't you think that a lot of that is predicated on the environment that you
develop in and the people that you're around and the,
the lives that you imitate and the influences that you have around you,
someone has to do something to influence those kids in a different way. Look,
I was very fortunate when I was young that I discovered martial arts and it kept
me from being what I could have potentially been a bad kid.
It gave me something to focus on. There's an,
I didn't grow up in a bad environment, but it wasn't the best.
There's a lot of people out there that grow up in horrific environments and they
never have that thing. They never have something.
They don't have a father around, or they don't have a mother around or whatever,
whatever bad influences they have are overwhelming. And they,
they don't, it's,
it's very difficult for someone to just air quotes,
get their together. It's very difficult for sure. That's why to this day,
there's so many books about losing weight.
Don't you think everybody wants to lose weight. That's fat. They do. They,
everybody who's fat wants to be thin. They do, but it's hard for sure.
And that's nothing in comparison to changing your life.
Whole life. But you would say about somebody losing weight, you know,
it's not useful.
Here is lamenting how bad your family has had it with regard to losing weight.
Like at a certain point, if you want to lose the weight,
you got to figure out a way to lose the weight.
Yeah. But this is based on the information that I have.
I have this vast scope of information that I've been able to absorb.
If you're in these isolated environments and everyone around you is involved in
gangs and crime and drugs,
it's very difficult to model yourself after something that you don't see in real.
Life. Totally true. Totally true. And that's why, again,
more information needs to get into areas.
I agree with a lot of the opportunities that needed to be provided by education,
getting people to be educated outside their local public school would be a good
change. I mean, being able to like move outside your crap,
local public school and go somewhere else. The best.
Influences for kids that grow up in these environments seem to be people that
have gotten out and then come back and talk to them and tell them how to.
Do it, but this can be done. But to go back to the original conversation,
none of this has to do with telling kids that you live in an evil country,
that's seeking to keep you down. Well.
Maybe not, but there,
there has been a very small amount of emphasis placed on taking
these impoverished communities and figuring out how to engineer them out of the
situation.
That's true. So I don't think that's true. Yeah.
I mean the amount that we've spent on a federal level and a state level on
educational programs and poverty programs over time,
but no on it on a year to year level, I mean, these are,
these are enormous quantities of money.
This is not a money and this is not really a money problem.
It really is not a money problem in just terms of,
you could sign everybody a check tomorrow, right? The, the predicate.
So the predicate for the slavery reparations movement is exactly this sign.
Everybody had $80,000 check and the problem will be alleviated. No,
I don't think that's, I don't think that's, I think they'll spend.
$80,000 And they'll be right back where they started from.
But I do think that there is an argument that there can be some way
of engineering, whether it's community centers or education,
or doing something differently in these places to chip away at this problem.
So on that stuff, we totally agree.
The only point that I'm making about the 1619 project is when you teach people
that they are the victims of a society,
it makes it very difficult for them to succeed. The story of,
of black America should be a story of unbelievably brave people triumphing over
systems that sucked, right? I mean, that, that is the story of black America.
Most black Americans do not live under the poverty line in the United States.
There's a huge black middle class. There's a black upper-class. Yes. Let's.
Just, let's simplify this if we can. Sure.
If Ben Shapiro's the king of the world, how do you fix Baltimore?
How do you fix Detroit? How do you fix the south side of Chicago?
Okay. So here's the unpopular view, but it happens to be empirically, correct.
The first thing you have to do is you have to load the place of the police.
You gotta load the place with police because you have to stop crime.
Once you stop crime, then businesses are happy to invest in those areas.
You're not gonna get businesses to invest in those areas and provide jobs unless
the crime is gone. You need, in fact,
one of the reasons that you have such a vast differential in racial crime in the
United States is because of white racism.
And this is the point that Jane Levy writer for the LA times has made you should
write a book called Ghettoside.
And she points out that the reason that black crime was so high in the early
20th century and late 19th century is because basically white communities said
to black communities you're on your own right enjoy.
And so the prime rates ended up spiking because there were no police there.
You have to make sure that law abiding people are protected.
That law abiding businesses are protected. That people want to live there,
that people want to invest there.
You have to have a re-establishment of faith in churches, right?
You need social institutions outside of government that are promoting things
like family. You need,
you need more than one of the reasons you need more companies in these areas is
they can offer educational opportunities to kids,
internships deals to go to college and then come back and work for us for a
couple of years, right? You need an opportunity.
The same way that opportunity is built anywhere else on earth,
you need to provide a safe space for business to work and for free speech to
flourish and for education to be valued, you need to go in,
you need to make clear to every kid. If you graduate high school,
then you will have a shot at college, which by the way is 100% true today,
right? If you are a black head and you graduate high school with any level of
achievement,
you'll have a very solid shot of at least going to a community college.
And if you score even decently on the SATs of going to a very high level
college, right,
affirmative action programs are extraordinarily common across the United States.
But the first message is we are going to ensure that law and order prevail here,
a safe space for life, Liberty, and property and ownership of private property.
And we are going to make sure that you, as a law abiding citizen,
have the opportunity to succeed because the biggest obstacle to young black kids
growing up in the inner city again, is not history. It is in the moment,
the drugs, the crime,
the fact that there are no fathers in a lot of these areas, Roland fryer,
black professor at Harvard has done excellent work showing that actually the
number one factor in allowing kids to,
to rise is not even having a father in the home and how many fathers there are
generally in the community. So you can, you can have a single mom,
but if there are a lot of other male father figures around that helps fill in
the gap, right? These, these are practical things,
giving kids the ability to pick the school they go to.
So they don't have to go to the local crappy public school.
If it's a local crappy public school, there'll be a solution here.
But this all starts with the notion that it is not racist in the slightest to
suggest that law and order have to prevail.
And that law abiding people should be protected in their exercise of their
rights.
I think you're a hundred percent right on that. And I think,
although that might be an unpopular opinion. I agree with you.